My *learn anything* process;

* First things first is to minimise the screaming when looking at something I totally don't understand. It's not extremely useful, and often gets unwanted police attention.
* After that I try and determine for what purpose I'm learning this new thing. Is it to implement in some project and then forget about for the rest of my life? Or is it going to be a skill I want to use a lot in the future. This helps me get to grips with the depth of knowledge I'm going to need and where I should start. For example, learning to use a Ruby gem to do something on my app won't need as much a thorough understanding of the internal intricacies as, say, flying a commercial plane.
The next thing I usually do is try and identify what I don't know, what I do know, and what I think I don't know but I actually do know I just don't realise because they are wearing a trench coat and sunglasses. A good example of this would be learning Javascript. When starting out, there was a lot I thought I didn't know, like constructors. It turns out these weren't dissimilar to standard OOP Classes in disguise.
* When you know what's the unknown, known, and kinda-known, you can transfer any existing understanding to this new practice.
* Depending on what you're learning, this is the stage where I would start to gather resources for learning the subject material. Tutorials, documentation, youtube videos, yoga teachers, whatever. Something to get stuck into. The generalness or specificity of these resources would depend on what I'm trying to learn and wha depth of knowledge I need.
* After that you can start building up on the unknown. For me personally, this is done by playing with whatever concepts I'm learning. Whether it's seeing what breaks systems in javascript or forming very broken sentences in Japanese, this step is integral to assimilating the stuff you're learning into something you begin to understand instinctively.
